#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile
# To update, run:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.in
#
aiohttp==3.5.4            # via octomachinery
asn1crypto==0.24.0        # via cryptography
async-timeout==3.0.1      # via aiohttp
attrs==19.1.0             # via aiohttp, environ-config
cffi==1.12.3              # via cryptography
chardet==3.0.4            # via aiohttp
cryptography==2.7         # via octomachinery
environ-config==18.2.0    # via octomachinery
envparse==0.2.0           # via octomachinery
gidgethub==3.1.0          # via octomachinery
idna==2.8                 # via yarl
multidict==4.5.2          # via aiohttp, yarl
octomachinery==0.0.17
pycparser==2.19           # via cffi
pyjwt==1.7.1              # via octomachinery
pyyaml==5.1.2             # via octomachinery
setuptools-scm==3.3.3     # via octomachinery
six==1.12.0               # via cryptography
uritemplate==3.0.0        # via gidgethub
yarl==1.3.0               # via aiohttp
